

\subsection{Adding Text\\添加文本}

Karl is, by now, quite satisfied with the picture. However, the most important
parts, namely the labels, are still missing!

卡尔对图片已经相当满意了。然而，最重要的部分，也就是标签，还是缺失的！


\tikzname\ offers an easy-to-use and powerful system for adding text and, more
generally, complex shapes to a picture at specific positions. The basic idea is
the following: When \tikzname\ is constructing a path and encounters the
keyword |node| in the middle of a path, it reads a \emph{node specification}.
The keyword |node| is typically followed by some options and then some text
between curly braces. This text is put inside a normal \TeX\ box (if the node
specification directly follows a coordinate, which is usually the case,
\tikzname\ is able to perform some magic so that it is even possible to use
verbatim text inside the boxes) and then placed at the current position, that
is, at the last specified position (possibly shifted a bit, according to the
given options). However, all nodes are drawn only after the path has been
completely drawn/filled/shaded/clipped/whatever.

\tikzname\ 提供了一个易于使用且功能强大的系统，用于在特定位置向图片添加文本和其他复杂形状。基本思想如下：当 \tikzname\ 构建路径并在路径中间遇到关键字 |node| 时，它会读取一个\emph{节点规范}。关键字 |node| 通常后面跟着一些选项，然后是花括号内的一些文本。这个文本被放入一个普通的 \TeX\ 盒子中（如果节点规范直接跟在坐标后面，这通常是情况，\tikzname\ 能够执行一些魔法，使得甚至可以在盒子中使用抄录文本），然后放置在当前位置，即最后指定的位置（根据给定的选项可能会稍微偏移一点）。然而，所有的节点都是在路径完全绘制/填充/着色/裁剪/等等之后绘制的。

\begin{codeexample}[]
\begin{tikzpicture}
  \draw (0,0) rectangle (2,2);
  \draw (0.5,0.5) node [fill=yellow!80!black]
                       {Text at \verb!node 1!}
     -- (1.5,1.5) node {Text at \verb!node 2!};
\end{tikzpicture}
\end{codeexample}

Obviously, Karl would not only like to place nodes \emph{on} the last specified
position, but also to the left or the right of these positions. For this, every
node object that you put in your picture is equipped with several
\emph{anchors}. For example, the |north| anchor is in the middle at the upper
end of the shape, the |south| anchor is at the bottom and the |north east|
anchor is in the upper right corner. When you give the option |anchor=north|,
the text will be placed such that this northern anchor will lie on the current
position and the text is, thus, below the current position. Karl uses this to
draw the ticks as follows:

显然，卡尔不仅希望将节点放在最后指定的位置上，还希望将其放在这些位置的左侧或右侧。为此，你在图片中放置的每个节点对象都配备了若干\emph{锚点}。例如，|north| 锚点位于形状的上端中间，|south| 锚点位于底部，|north east| 锚点位于右上角。当给定选项 |anchor=north| 时，文本将被放置在该北方锚点上，因此文本位于当前位置的下方。卡尔使用以下方法绘制刻度线：

\begin{codeexample}[]
\begin{tikzpicture}[scale=3]
  \clip (-0.6,-0.2) rectangle (0.6,1.51);
  \draw[step=.5cm,help lines] (-1.4,-1.4) grid (1.4,1.4);
  \filldraw[fill=green!20,draw=green!50!black] (0,0) -- (3mm,0mm)
    arc [start angle=0, end angle=30, radius=3mm] -- cycle;
  \draw[->] (-1.5,0) -- (1.5,0);   \draw[->] (0,-1.5) -- (0,1.5);
  \draw (0,0) circle [radius=1cm];

  \foreach \x in {-1,-0.5,1}
    \draw (\x cm,1pt) -- (\x cm,-1pt) node[anchor=north] {$\x$};
  \foreach \y in {-1,-0.5,0.5,1}
    \draw (1pt,\y cm) -- (-1pt,\y cm) node[anchor=east] {$\y$};
\end{tikzpicture}
\end{codeexample}

This is quite nice, already. Using these anchors, Karl can now add most of the
other text elements. However, Karl thinks that, though ``correct'', it is quite
counter-intuitive that in order to place something \emph{below} a given point,
he has to use the \emph{north} anchor. For this reason, there is an option
called |below|, which does the same as |anchor=north|. Similarly, |above right|
does the same as |anchor=south west|. In addition, |below| takes an optional
dimension argument. If given, the shape will additionally be shifted downwards
by the given amount. So, |below=1pt| can be used to put a text label below some
point and, additionally shift it  1pt downwards.

这已经相当不错了。使用这些锚点，Karl现在可以添加大部分其他的文本元素了。然而，Karl认为，尽管“正确”，但要在给定点的下方放置某物，他必须使用“north”锚点，这是相当不直观的。因此，有一个名为|below|的选项，它与|anchor=north|的作用相同。类似地，|above right|与|anchor=south west|的作用相同。此外，|below|接受一个可选的尺寸参数。如果给定，形状将额外向下移动给定的量。因此，可以使用|below=1pt|将文本标签放置在某个点的下方，并将其额外向下移动1pt。



Karl is not quite satisfied with the ticks. He would like to have $1/2$ or
$\frac{1}{2}$ shown instead of $0.5$, partly to show off the nice capabilities
of \TeX\ and \tikzname, partly because for positions like $1/3$ or $\pi$ it is
certainly very much preferable to have the ``mathematical'' tick there instead
of just the ``numeric'' tick. His students, on the other hand, prefer $0.5$
over $1/2$ since they are not too fond of fractions in general.


Karl对刻度线还不太满意。他想要显示$1/2$或$\frac{1}{2}$，而不是$0.5$，部分是为了展示\TeX 和\tikzname 的出色功能，部分是因为对于类似$1/3$或$\pi$的位置，使用“数学”的刻度线肯定比仅仅使用“数字”的刻度线更好。然而，他的学生们更喜欢$0.5$而不是$1/2$，因为他们对分数不太感兴趣。



Karl now faces a problem: For the |\foreach| statement, the position |\x|
should still be given as |0.5| since \tikzname\ will not know where
|\frac{1}{2}| is supposed to be. On the other hand, the typeset text should
really be  |\frac{1}{2}|. To solve this problem, |\foreach| offers a special
syntax: Instead of having one variable |\x|, Karl can specify two (or even
more) variables separated by a slash as in |\x / \xtext|. Then, the elements in
the set over which |\foreach| iterates must also be of the form
\meta{first}|/|\meta{second}. In each iteration, |\x| will be set to
\meta{first} and |\xtext| will be set to \meta{second}. If no \meta{second} is
given, the \meta{first} will be used again. So, here is the new code for the
ticks:

现在Karl面临一个问题：对于|\foreach|语句，位置|\x|仍然应该给定为|0.5|，因为\tikzname 不知道|\frac{1}{2}|应该在哪里。另一方面，排版的文本应该真正是|\frac{1}{2}|。为了解决这个问题，|\foreach|提供了一种特殊的语法：Karl可以指定两个（甚至更多）由斜杠分隔的变量，如|\x / \xtext|。然后，|\foreach|迭代的集合中的元素必须以\meta{first}|/|\meta{second}的形式。在每次迭代中，|\x|将被设置为\meta{first}，|\xtext|将被设置为\meta{second}。如果没有给出\meta{second}，则再次使用\meta{first}。因此，这是刻度线的新代码：


\begin{codeexample}[]
\begin{tikzpicture}[scale=3]
  \clip (-0.6,-0.2) rectangle (0.6,1.51);
  \draw[step=.5cm,help lines] (-1.4,-1.4) grid (1.4,1.4);
  \filldraw[fill=green!20,draw=green!50!black] (0,0) -- (3mm,0mm)
      arc [start angle=0, end angle=30, radius=3mm] -- cycle;
  \draw[->] (-1.5,0) -- (1.5,0); \draw[->] (0,-1.5) -- (0,1.5);
  \draw (0,0) circle [radius=1cm];

  \foreach \x/\xtext in {-1, -0.5/-\frac{1}{2}, 1}
    \draw (\x cm,1pt) -- (\x cm,-1pt) node[anchor=north] {$\xtext$};
  \foreach \y/\ytext in {-1, -0.5/-\frac{1}{2}, 0.5/\frac{1}{2}, 1}
    \draw (1pt,\y cm) -- (-1pt,\y cm) node[anchor=east] {$\ytext$};
\end{tikzpicture}
\end{codeexample}

Karl is quite pleased with the result, but his son points out that this is
still not perfectly satisfactory: The grid and the circle interfere with the
numbers and decrease their legibility. Karl is not very concerned by this (his
students do not even notice), but his son insists that there is an easy
solution: Karl can add the |[fill=white]| option to fill out the background of
the text shape with a white color.

Karl对结果感到相当满意，但他的儿子指出这仍然不完全令人满意：网格和圆圈会干扰数字并降低其可读性。Karl对此并不太担心（他的学生甚至都没注意到），但他的儿子坚持认为有一个简单的解决方案：Karl可以在文本形状后面添加|[fill=white]|选项，用白色填充文本形状的背景。


The next thing Karl wants to do is to add the labels like $\sin \alpha$. For
this, he would like to place a label ``in the middle of the line''. To do so,
instead of specifying the label |node {$\sin\alpha$}|  directly after one of
the endpoints of the line (which would place the label at that endpoint), Karl
can give the label directly after the |--|, before the coordinate. By default,
this places the label in the middle of the line, but the |pos=| options can be
used to modify this. Also, options like |near start| and |near end| can be used
to modify this position:

Karl接下来想要做的是添加类似于$\sin \alpha$的标签。为此，他想要将标签放在``线的中间''。为了实现这一点，Karl不是直接在线的一个端点之后指定标签|node {$\sin\alpha$}|（这会将标签放在该端点处），而是在|--|之后、坐标之前直接给出标签。默认情况下，这将将标签放在线的中间，但可以使用|pos=|选项来修改这个位置。此外，还可以使用类似于|near start|和|near end|的选项来修改这个位置：


\begin{codeexample}[preamble={\usetikzlibrary{intersections}}]
\begin{tikzpicture}[scale=3]
  \clip (-2,-0.2) rectangle (2,0.8);
  \draw[step=.5cm,gray,very thin] (-1.4,-1.4) grid (1.4,1.4);
  \filldraw[fill=green!20,draw=green!50!black] (0,0) -- (3mm,0mm)
    arc [start angle=0, end angle=30, radius=3mm] -- cycle;
  \draw[->] (-1.5,0) -- (1.5,0) coordinate (x axis);
  \draw[->] (0,-1.5) -- (0,1.5) coordinate (y axis);
  \draw (0,0) circle [radius=1cm];

  \draw[very thick,red]
    (30:1cm) -- node[left=1pt,fill=white] {$\sin \alpha$} (30:1cm |- x axis);
  \draw[very thick,blue]
    (30:1cm |- x axis) -- node[below=2pt,fill=white] {$\cos \alpha$} (0,0);
  \path [name path=upward line] (1,0) -- (1,1);
  \path [name path=sloped line] (0,0) -- (30:1.5cm);
  \draw [name intersections={of=upward line and sloped line, by=t}]
    [very thick,orange] (1,0) -- node [right=1pt,fill=white]
    {$\displaystyle \tan \alpha \color{black}=
      \frac{{\color{red}\sin \alpha}}{\color{blue}\cos \alpha}$} (t);

  \draw (0,0) -- (t);

  \foreach \x/\xtext in {-1, -0.5/-\frac{1}{2}, 1}
    \draw (\x cm,1pt) -- (\x cm,-1pt) node[anchor=north,fill=white] {$\xtext$};
  \foreach \y/\ytext in {-1, -0.5/-\frac{1}{2}, 0.5/\frac{1}{2}, 1}
    \draw (1pt,\y cm) -- (-1pt,\y cm) node[anchor=east,fill=white] {$\ytext$};
\end{tikzpicture}
\end{codeexample}

You can also position labels on curves and, by adding the |sloped| option, have
them rotated such that they match the line's slope. Here is an example:

您还可以在曲线上放置标签，并通过添加|sloped|选项使其旋转，以与线的斜率匹配。以下是一个示例：

\begin{codeexample}[]
\begin{tikzpicture}
  \draw (0,0) .. controls (6,1) and (9,1) ..
    node[near start,sloped,above] {near start}
    node {midway}
    node[very near end,sloped,below] {very near end} (12,0);
\end{tikzpicture}
\end{codeexample}

It remains to draw the explanatory text at the right of the picture. The main
difficulty here lies in limiting the width of the text ``label'', which is
quite long, so that line breaking is used. Fortunately, Karl can use the option
|text width=6cm| to get the desired effect. So, here is the full code:

接下来需要在图片右侧绘制解释性文本。这里的主要困难在于限制文本“label”的宽度，因为它相当长，所以需要使用换行。幸运的是，卡尔可以使用选项|text width=6cm|来实现所需的效果。因此，以下是完整的代码：


\begin{codeexample}[code only]
\begin{tikzpicture}
  [scale=3,line cap=round,
  % Styles
  axes/.style=,
  important line/.style={very thick},
  information text/.style={rounded corners,fill=red!10,inner sep=1ex}]

  % Colors
  \colorlet{anglecolor}{green!50!black}
  \colorlet{sincolor}{red}
  \colorlet{tancolor}{orange!80!black}
  \colorlet{coscolor}{blue}

  % The graphic
  \draw[help lines,step=0.5cm] (-1.4,-1.4) grid (1.4,1.4);

  \draw (0,0) circle [radius=1cm];

  \begin{scope}[axes]
    \draw[->] (-1.5,0) -- (1.5,0) node[right] {$x$} coordinate(x axis);
    \draw[->] (0,-1.5) -- (0,1.5) node[above] {$y$} coordinate(y axis);

    \foreach \x/\xtext in {-1, -.5/-\frac{1}{2}, 1}
      \draw[xshift=\x cm] (0pt,1pt) -- (0pt,-1pt) node[below,fill=white] {$\xtext$};

    \foreach \y/\ytext in {-1, -.5/-\frac{1}{2}, .5/\frac{1}{2}, 1}
      \draw[yshift=\y cm] (1pt,0pt) -- (-1pt,0pt) node[left,fill=white] {$\ytext$};
  \end{scope}

  \filldraw[fill=green!20,draw=anglecolor] (0,0) -- (3mm,0pt)
    arc [start angle=0, end angle=30, radius=3mm];
  \draw (15:2mm) node[anglecolor] {$\alpha$};

  \draw[important line,sincolor]
    (30:1cm) -- node[left=1pt,fill=white] {$\sin \alpha$} (30:1cm |- x axis);

  \draw[important line,coscolor]
    (30:1cm |- x axis) -- node[below=2pt,fill=white] {$\cos \alpha$} (0,0);

  \path [name path=upward line] (1,0) -- (1,1);
  \path [name path=sloped line] (0,0) -- (30:1.5cm);
  \draw [name intersections={of=upward line and sloped line, by=t}]
    [very thick,orange] (1,0) -- node [right=1pt,fill=white]
    {$\displaystyle \tan \alpha \color{black}=
      \frac{{\color{red}\sin \alpha}}{\color{blue}\cos \alpha}$} (t);

  \draw (0,0) -- (t);

  \draw[xshift=1.85cm]
    node[right,text width=6cm,information text]
    {
      The {\color{anglecolor} angle $\alpha$} is $30^\circ$ in the
      example ($\pi/6$ in radians). The {\color{sincolor}sine of
        $\alpha$}, which is the height of the red line, is
      \[
      {\color{sincolor} \sin \alpha} = 1/2.
      \]
      By the Theorem of Pythagoras ...
    };
\end{tikzpicture}
\end{codeexample}





\mshowc{section}
\mshowc{subsection}
\mshowc{subsubsection}
\end{document}

\subsection{Pics: The Angle Revisited}

Karl expects that the code of certain parts of the picture he created might be
so useful that he might wish to reuse them in the future. A natural thing to do
is to create \TeX\ macros that store the code he wishes to reuse. However,
\tikzname\ offers another way that is integrated directly into its parser:
pics!

A ``pic'' is ``not quite a full picture'', hence the short name. The idea is
that a pic is simply some code that you can add to a picture at different
places using the |pic| command whose syntax is almost identical to the |node|
command. The main difference is that instead of specifying some text in curly
braces that should be shown, you specify the name of a predefined picture that
should be shown.

Defining new pics is easy enough, see Section~\ref{section-pics}, but right now
we just want to use one such predefined pic: the |angle| pic. As the name
suggests, it is a small drawing of an angle consisting of a little wedge and an
arc together with some text (Karl needs to load the |angles| library and the
|quotes| for the following examples). What makes this pic useful is the fact
that the size of the wedge will be computed automatically.

The |angle| pic draws an angle between the two lines $BA$ and $BC$, where $A$,
$B$, and $C$ are three coordinates. In our case, $B$ is the origin, $A$ is
somewhere on the $x$-axis and $C$ is somewhere on a line at $30^\circ$.
%
\begin{codeexample}[preamble={\usetikzlibrary{angles,quotes}}]
\begin{tikzpicture}[scale=3]
  \coordinate (A) at (1,0);
  \coordinate (B) at (0,0);
  \coordinate (C) at (30:1cm);

  \draw (A) -- (B) -- (C)
        pic [draw=green!50!black, fill=green!20, angle radius=9mm,
             "$\alpha$"] {angle = A--B--C};
\end{tikzpicture}
\end{codeexample}

Let us see, what is happening here. First we have specified three
\emph{coordinates} using the |\coordinate| command. It allows us to name a
specific coordinate in the picture. Then comes something that starts as a
normal |\draw|, but then comes the |pic| command. This command gets lots of
options and, in curly braces, comes the most important point: We specify that
we want to add an |angle| pic and this angle should be between the points we
named |A|, |B|, and |C| (we could use other names). Note that the text that we
want to be shown in the pic is specified in quotes inside the options of the
|pic|, not inside the curly braces.

To learn more about pics, please see Section~\ref{section-pics}.
